HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use
PAXLOVID safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for
PAXLOVID.

• PAXLOVID is not recommend in patients with severe hepatic impairment
(Child-Pugh Class C). (2.4, 8.7)
--------------------- DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS---------------------• Tablets: nirmatrelvir 150 mg (3)
• Tablets: ritonavir 100 mg (3)

PAXLOVID™ (nirmatrelvir tablets; ritonavir tablets), co-packaged for
oral use
Initial U.S. Approval: 2023

------------------------------ CONTRAINDICATIONS -----------------------------• History of clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions to the active
ingredients (nirmatrelvir or ritonavir) or any other components. (4)
• Co-administration with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance
and for which elevated concentrations are associated with serious and/or
life-threatening reactions. (4, 7.3)
• Co-administration with potent CYP3A inducers where significantly
reduced nirmatrelvir or ritonavir plasma concentrations may be associated
with the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance. (4)

WARNING: SIGNIFICANT DRUG INTERACTIONS WITH
PAXLOVID
See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.
• PAXLOVID includes ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, which
may lead to greater exposure of certain concomitant medications,
resulting in potentially severe, life-threatening, or fatal events. (4,
5.1, 7)
• Prior to prescribing PAXLOVID: 1) Review all medications taken
by the patient to assess potential drug-drug interactions with a
strong CYP3A inhibitor like PAXLOVID and 2) Determine if
concomitant medications require a dose adjustment, interruption,
and/or additional monitoring. (7)
• Consider the benefit of PAXLOVID treatment in reducing
hospitalization and death, and whether the risk of potential drugdrug interactions for an individual patient can be appropriately
managed. (5.1, 7, 14)

----------------------- WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ----------------------• The concomitant use of PAXLOVID and certain other drugs may result in
potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the Full Prescribing
Information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions.
(5.1, 7)
• Hypersensitivity Reactions: Anaphylaxis, serious skin reactions (including
toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome), and other
hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with PAXLOVID. If signs
and symptoms of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction or
anaphylaxis occur, immediately discontinue PAXLOVID and initiate
appropriate medications and/or supportive care. (5.2)
• Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic transaminase elevations, clinical hepatitis, and
jaundice have occurred in patients receiving ritonavir. (5.3)
• HIV-1 Drug Resistance: PAXLOVID use may lead to a risk of HIV-1
developing resistance to HIV protease inhibitors in individuals with
uncontrolled or undiagnosed HIV-1 infection. (5.4)

--------------------------- INDICATIONS AND USAGE---------------------------PAXLOVID which includes nirmatrelvir, a severe acute respiratory syndrome
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) main protease (Mpro: also referred to as 3CLpro
or nsp5 protease) inhibitor, and ritonavir, an HIV-1 protease inhibitor and
CYP3A inhibitor, is indicated for the treatment of mild-to-moderate
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults who are at high risk for
progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death. (1)

------------------------------ ADVERSE REACTIONS -----------------------------Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥1% and greater incidence than in
the placebo group) are dysgeusia and diarrhea. (6.1)

Limitations of Use
PAXLOVID is not approved for use as pre-exposure or post-exposure
prophylaxis for prevention of COVID-19. (1)

To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at
1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.

----------------------- DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ----------------------PAXLOVID is nirmatrelvir tablets co-packaged with ritonavir tablets. (2.1)
Nirmatrelvir must be co-administered with ritonavir. (2.1)
• Initiate PAXLOVID treatment as soon as possible after diagnosis of
COVID-19 and within 5 days of symptom onset. (2.1)
• Administer orally with or without food. (2.1)
• Dosage: 300 mg nirmatrelvir (two 150 mg tablets) with 100 mg ritonavir
(one 100 mg tablet), with all 3 tablets taken together twice daily for 5 days.
(2.2)
• Dose reduction for moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 to
<60 mL/min): 150 mg nirmatrelvir (one 150 mg tablet) with 100 mg
ritonavir (one 100 mg tablet), with both tablets taken together twice daily
for 5 days. (2.3)
• PAXLOVID is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment
(eGFR <30 mL/min). (2 3, 8.6)
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS*
WARNING: SIGNIFICANT DRUG INTERACTIONS
WITH PAXLOVID
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
2.1
Important Dosage and Administration Information
2.2
Recommended Dosage
2.3
Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment
2.4
Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
5.1
Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions Due to Drug
Interactions
5.2
Hypersensitivity Reactions
5.3
Hepatotoxicity
5.4
Risk of HIV-1 Resistance Development
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
6.1
Clinical Trials Experience
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS

------------------------------DRUG INTERACTIONS------------------------------Co-administration of PAXLOVID can alter the plasma concentrations of other
drugs and other drugs may alter the plasma concentrations of PAXLOVID.
Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during PAXLOVID
therapy and review concomitant medications during PAXLOVID therapy. (4,
5.1, 7, 12.3)
See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and
FDA-approved patient labeling.
Revised: 05/2023

7.1
7.2
7.3

Potential for PAXLOVID to Affect Other Drugs
Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PAXLOVID
Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug
Interactions
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
8.1
Pregnancy
8.2
Lactation
8.3
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential
8.4
Pediatric Use
8.5
Geriatric Use
8.6
Renal Impairment
8.7
Hepatic Impairment
10 OVERDOSAGE
11 DESCRIPTION
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
12.1 Mechanism of Action
12.2 Pharmacodynamics
12.3 Pharmacokinetics
12.4 Microbiology
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY

1
Reference ID: 5178484

13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
14 CLINICAL STUDIES
14.1 Efficacy in Subjects at High Risk of Progression to
Severe COVID-19 (EPIC-HR)
14.2 Trial in Unvaccinated Subjects Without a Risk Factor
for Progression to Severe COVID-19 or Subjects
Fully Vaccinated Against COVID-19 With at Least

One Factor for Progression to Severe COVID-19
(EPIC-SR)
14.3 Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Trial
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
* Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are
not listed.

2
Reference ID: 5178484

FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
WARNING: SIGNIFICANT DRUG INTERACTIONS WITH PAXLOVID
PAXLOVID includes ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, which may lead to greater exposure
of certain concomitant medications, resulting in potentially severe, life-threatening, or fatal
events [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Drug Interactions (7)].
Prior to prescribing PAXLOVID: 1) Review all medications taken by the patient to assess
potential drug-drug interactions with a strong CYP3A inhibitor like PAXLOVID and
2) Determine if concomitant medications require a dose adjustment, interruption, and/or
additional monitoring [see Drug Interactions (7)].
Consider the benefit of PAXLOVID treatment in reducing hospitalization and death, and
whether the risk of potential drug-drug interactions for an individual patient can be
appropriately managed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical
Studies (14)].

•
•

•

1

INDICATIONS AND USAGE

PAXLOVID is indicated for the treatment of mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults
who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death.
Limitations of Use
PAXLOVID is not approved for use as pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis for prevention of COVID-19
[see Clinical Studies (14.3)].
2

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

2.1

Important Dosage and Administration Information

PAXLOVID is nirmatrelvir tablets co-packaged with ritonavir tablets. There are two different dose packs
available:
•

PAXLOVID (nirmatrelvir; ritonavir) co-packaged for oral use 300 mg;100 mg [see Dosage and
Administration (2.2)].

•

PAXLOVID (nirmatrelvir; ritonavir) co-packaged for oral use 150 mg;100 mg for patients with
moderate renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].

Nirmatrelvir must be co-administered with ritonavir. Failure to correctly co-administer nirmatrelvir with
ritonavir may result in plasma levels of nirmatrelvir that are insufficient to achieve the desired therapeutic
effect.
Prescriptions should specify the numeric dose of each active ingredient within PAXLOVID [see Dosage and
Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. Completion of the full 5-day treatment course and continued isolation in accordance
with public health recommendations are important to maximize viral clearance and minimize transmission of
SARS-CoV-2.
The 5-day treatment course of PAXLOVID should be initiated as soon as possible after a diagnosis of
COVID-19 has been made, and within 5 days of symptom onset even if baseline COVID-19 symptoms are
3
Reference ID: 5178484

mild. Should a patient require hospitalization due to severe or critical COVID-19 after starting treatment with
PAXLOVID, the patient should complete the full 5-day treatment course per the healthcare provider’s
discretion.
If the patient misses a dose of PAXLOVID within 8 hours of the time it is usually taken, the patient should take
it as soon as possible and resume the normal dosing schedule. If the patient misses a dose by more than 8 hours,
the patient should not take the missed dose and instead take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time. The
patient should not double the dose to make up for a missed dose.
PAXLOVID (both nirmatrelvir and ritonavir tablets) can be taken with or without food [see Clinical
Pharmacology (12.3)]. The tablets should be swallowed whole and not chewed, broken, or crushed.
2.2

Recommended Dosage

The recommended dosage for PAXLOVID is 300 mg nirmatrelvir (two 150 mg tablets) with 100 mg ritonavir
(one 100 mg tablet) with all 3 tablets taken together orally twice daily for 5 days.
Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment

2.3

No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment (eGFR ≥60 to <90 mL/min).
In patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 to <60 mL/min), the dosage of PAXLOVID is 150 mg
nirmatrelvir (one 150 mg tablet) and 100 mg ritonavir (one 100 mg tablet) with both tablets taken together twice
daily for 5 days [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16)]. Prescriptions should specify the numeric dose
of each active ingredient within PAXLOVID. Providers should counsel patients about renal dosing instructions
[see Patient Counseling Information (17)].
PAXLOVID is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 mL/min) until more data
are available; the appropriate dosage for patients with severe renal impairment has not been determined
[see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].
2.4

Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment

No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B)
hepatic impairment.
No pharmacokinetic or safety data are available regarding the use of nirmatrelvir or ritonavir in subjects with
severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment; therefore, PAXLOVID is not recommended for use in patients
with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)].
3

DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS

PAXLOVID is nirmatrelvir tablets co-packaged with ritonavir tablets [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling
(16)].
•

Nirmatrelvir is supplied as oval, pink immediate-release, film-coated tablets debossed with “PFE” on
one side and “3CL” on the other side. Each tablet contains 150 mg of nirmatrelvir.

•

Ritonavir is supplied as white or white to off-white film-coated tablets uniquely identified by the color,
shape, and debossing. Each tablet contains 100 mg of ritonavir.
4

Reference ID: 5178484

4

CONTRAINDICATIONS

PAXLOVID is contraindicated in patients with a history of clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions
[e.g., toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) or Stevens-Johnson syndrome] to its active ingredients (nirmatrelvir or
ritonavir) or any other components of the product.
PAXLOVID is contraindicated with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A and for which elevated
concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions and drugs that are strong CYP3A
inducers where significantly reduced nirmatrelvir or ritonavir plasma concentrations may be associated with the
potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance. There are certain other drugs for which
concomitant use with PAXLOVID should be avoided and/or dose adjustment, interruption, or therapeutic
monitoring is recommended. Drugs listed in this section are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of
all drugs that may be contraindicated with PAXLOVID. The healthcare provider should consult other
appropriate resources such as the prescribing information for the interacting drug for comprehensive
information on dosing or monitoring with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor like PAXLOVID [see
Drug Interactions (7.3)]:
 Drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A for which elevated concentrations are associated with
serious and/or life-threatening reactions [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Alpha 1-adrenoreceptor antagonist: alfuzosin
Antianginal: ranolazine
Antiarrhythmic: amiodarone, dronedarone, flecainide, propafenone, quinidine
Anti-gout: colchicine (in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment [see Table 1, Drug Interactions
(7.3)])
Antipsychotics: lurasidone, pimozide
Benign prostatic hyperplasia agents: silodosin
Cardiovascular agents: eplerenone, ivabradine
Ergot derivatives: dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, methylergonovine
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: lovastatin, simvastatin (these drugs can be temporarily discontinued to
allow PAXLOVID use [see Table 1, Drug Interactions (7.3)])
Immunosuppressants: voclosporin
Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitor: lomitapide
Migraine medications: eletriptan, ubrogepant
Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists: finerenone
Opioid antagonists: naloxegol
PDE5 inhibitor: sildenafil (Revatio®) when used for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
Sedative/hypnotics: triazolam, oral midazolam
Serotonin receptor 1A agonist/serotonin receptor 2A antagonist: flibanserin
Vasopressin receptor antagonists: tolvaptan

 Drugs that are strong CYP3A inducers where significantly reduced nirmatrelvir or ritonavir plasma
concentrations may be associated with the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance.
PAXLOVID cannot be started immediately after discontinuation of any of the following medications due to
the delayed offset of the recently discontinued CYP3A inducer [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]:
•
•
•

Anticancer drugs: apalutamide
Anticonvulsant: carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone, phenytoin
Antimycobacterials: rifampin, rifapentine
5

Reference ID: 5178484

•
•
5

Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiators: lumacaftor/ivacaftor
Herbal products: St. John’s Wort (hypericum perforatum)

WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

5.1

Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions Due to Drug Interactions

Initiation of PAXLOVID, which contains ritonavir, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications
metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving
PAXLOVID, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Medications that
induce CYP3A may decrease concentrations of PAXLOVID. These interactions may lead to:
•
•

Clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life-threatening, or fatal events
from greater exposures of concomitant medications.
Loss of therapeutic effect of PAXLOVID and possible development of viral resistance.

Severe, life-threatening, and/or fatal adverse reactions due to drug interactions have been reported in patients
treated with PAXLOVID. The most commonly reported concomitant medications resulting in serious adverse
reactions were calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus, cyclosporine), followed by calcium channel blockers.
Prior to prescribing PAXLOVID, review all medications taken by the patient to assess potential drug-drug
interactions and determine if concomitant medications require a dose adjustment, interruption, and/or additional
monitoring (e.g., calcineurin inhibitors) [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. See Table 1 for
clinically significant drug interactions, including contraindicated drugs. Drugs listed in Table 1 are a guide and
not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may interact with PAXLOVID.
Consider the benefit of PAXLOVID treatment in reducing hospitalization and death, and whether the risk of
potential drug-drug interactions for an individual patient can be appropriately managed [see Drug
Interactions (7) and Clinical Studies (14)].
5.2

Hypersensitivity Reactions

Anaphylaxis, serious skin reactions (including toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome), and
other hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with PAXLOVID [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If signs
and symptoms of a clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction or anaphylaxis occur, immediately
discontinue PAXLOVID and initiate appropriate medications and/or supportive care.
5.3

Hepatotoxicity

Hepatic transaminase elevations, clinical hepatitis, and jaundice have occurred in patients receiving ritonavir.
Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering PAXLOVID to patients with pre-existing liver
diseases, liver enzyme abnormalities, or hepatitis.
5.4

Risk of HIV-1 Resistance Development

Because nirmatrelvir is co-administered with ritonavir, there may be a risk of HIV-1 developing resistance to
HIV protease inhibitors in individuals with uncontrolled or undiagnosed HIV-1 infection [see Contraindications
(4) and Drug Interactions (7)].

6
Reference ID: 5178484

6

ADVERSE REACTIONS

The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling:
• Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]
6.1

Clinical Trials Experience

Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the
clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not
reflect the rates observed in practice.
The safety of PAXLOVID is based on two Phase 2/3 randomized, placebo-controlled trials in symptomatic
adult subjects 18 years of age and older with a laboratory confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Subjects in both studies received PAXLOVID (nirmatrelvir/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg) or placebo every
12 hours for 5 days for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 within 5 days of symptom onset [see
Clinical Studies (14)]:
•
•

Trial C4671005 (EPIC-HR) enrolled subjects who were at high risk for progression to severe disease.
Trial C4671002 (EPIC-SR) enrolled subjects who were at standard risk for progression to severe
disease (previously unvaccinated subjects at standard risk or fully vaccinated subjects with at least
1 risk factor for progression to severe disease).

Adverse reactions were those reported while subjects were on study medication and through 28 days after the
last dose of study treatment.
In Trial C4671005 (EPIC-HR), 1,038 subjects received PAXLOVID and 1,053 subjects received placebo. The
most common adverse reactions (≥1% incidence in the PAXLOVID group and occurring at a greater frequency
than in the placebo group) were dysgeusia (5% and <1%, respectively) and diarrhea (3% and 2%, respectively).
Among vaccinated or unvaccinated subjects at standard risk or fully vaccinated subjects with at least 1 risk
factor for progression to severe disease in Trial C4671002 (EPIC-SR), 540 subjects received PAXLOVID and
528 subjects received placebo. The adverse reactions observed were consistent with those observed in
EPIC-HR.
Emergency Use Authorization Experience in Subjects with COVID-19
The following adverse reactions have been identified during use of PAXLOVID under Emergency Use
Authorization.
Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see
Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]
Nervous System Disorders: Headache
Vascular Disorders: Hypertension
Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Malaise

7
Reference ID: 5178484

7

DRUG INTERACTIONS

7.1

Potential for PAXLOVID to Affect Other Drugs

PAXLOVID (nirmatrelvir co-packaged with ritonavir) is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A, and an inhibitor of
CYP2D6, P-gp and OATP1B1. Co-administration of PAXLOVID with drugs that are primarily metabolized by
CYP3A and CYP2D6 or are transported by P-gp or OATP1B1 may result in increased plasma concentrations of
such drugs and increase the risk of adverse events. Co-administration of PAXLOVID with drugs highly
dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious
and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.3)
Table 1]. Co-administration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional
monitoring as shown in Table 1.
7.2

Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PAXLOVID

Nirmatrelvir and ritonavir are CYP3A substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A may decrease
nirmatrelvir and ritonavir plasma concentrations and reduce PAXLOVID therapeutic effect [see
Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.3) Table 1].
7.3

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions

Table 1 provides a listing of clinically significant drug interactions, including contraindicated drugs
[see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Drugs listed in Table 1 are a guide and not
considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may interact with PAXLOVID. The healthcare
provider should consult other appropriate resources such as the prescribing information for the interacting drug
for comprehensive information on dosing or monitoring with concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor such
as ritonavir.
Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Alpha 1alfuzosin
↑ alfuzosin
Co-administration contraindicated due to
adrenoreceptor
potential hypotension [see
antagonist
Contraindications (4)].
Alpha 1tamsulosin
↑ tamsulosin
Avoid concomitant use with
adrenoreceptor
PAXLOVID.
antagonist
Antianginal
ranolazine
↑ ranolazine
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for serious and/or
life-threatening reactions [see
Contraindications (4)].
Antiarrhythmics
amiodarone,
↑ antiarrhythmic
Co-administration contraindicated due to
dronedarone,
potential for cardiac arrhythmias [see
flecainide,
Contraindications (4)].
propafenone,
quinidine
Antiarrhythmics
lidocaine (systemic),
↑ antiarrhythmic
Caution is warranted and therapeutic
disopyramide
concentration monitoring is
recommended for antiarrhythmics if
available.

8
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Anticancer drugs
apalutamide
↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential loss of virologic response and
possible resistance [see
Contraindications (4)].
Anticancer drugs
abemaciclib,
↑ anticancer drugs
Avoid co-administration of encorafenib
ceritinib,
or ivosidenib due to potential risk of
dasatinib,
serious adverse events such as QT
encorafenib,
interval prolongation. Avoid use of
ibrutinib,
neratinib, venetoclax or ibrutinib.
ivosidenib,
neratinib,
Co-administration of vincristine and
nilotinib,
vinblastine may lead to significant
venetoclax,
hematologic or gastrointestinal side
vinblastine,
effects.
vincristine
For further information, refer to
individual product label for anticancer
drug.
Anticoagulants
warfarin
↑↓ warfarin
Closely monitor international normalized
ratio (INR) if co-administration with
warfarin is necessary.

Anticonvulsants

Anticonvulsants

rivaroxaban

↑ rivaroxaban

Increased bleeding risk with
rivaroxaban. Avoid concomitant use.

dabigatrana

↑ dabigatran

Increased bleeding risk with dabigatran.
Depending on dabigatran indication and
renal function, reduce dose of dabigatran
or avoid concomitant use. Refer to the
dabigatran product label for further
information.

apixaban

↑ apixaban

carbamazepinea,
phenobarbital,
primidone,
phenytoin
clonazepam

↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

Combined P-gp and strong CYP3A
inhibitors increase blood levels of
apixaban and increase the risk of
bleeding. Dosing recommendations for
co-administration of apixaban with
PAXLOVID depend on the apixaban
dose. Refer to the apixaban product label
for more information.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential loss of virologic response and
possible resistance [see
Contraindications (4)].
A dose decrease may be needed for
clonazepam when co-administered with
PAXLOVID and clinical monitoring is
recommended.

↑ anticonvulsant

9
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Antidepressants
bupropion
↓ bupropion and active
Monitor for an adequate clinical response
metabolite hydroxyto bupropion.
bupropion

Antifungals

trazodone

↑ trazodone

voriconazole

↓ voriconazole

ketoconazole,
isavuconazonium
sulfate,
itraconazolea

↑ ketoconazole
↑ isavuconazonium
sulfate
↑ itraconazole

Refer to ketoconazole, isavuconazonium
sulfate, and itraconazole product labels
for further information.

↑ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

A nirmatrelvir/ritonavir dose reduction is
not needed.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for serious and/or
life-threatening reactions in patients with
renal and/or hepatic impairment [see
Contraindications (4)].

Anti-gout

colchicine

↑ colchicine

Anti-HIV protease
inhibitors

atazanavir,
darunavir,
tipranavir

↑ protease inhibitor

Anti-HIV

Anti-infective
Antimycobacterial

efavirenz,
maraviroc,
nevirapine,
zidovudine,
bictegravir/
emtricitabine/
tenofovir
clarithromycin,
erythromycin

↑ efavirenz
↑ maraviroc
↑ nevirapine
↓ zidovudine
↑ bictegravir
↔ emtricitabine
↑ tenofovir
↑ clarithromycin
↑ erythromycin

rifampin,
rifapentine

↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

10
Reference ID: 5178484

Adverse reactions of nausea, dizziness,
hypotension, and syncope have been
observed following co-administration of
trazodone and ritonavir. A lower dose of
trazodone should be considered. Refer to
trazadone product label for further
information.
Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole.

For further information, refer to the
respective protease inhibitors’
prescribing information.
Patients on ritonavir- or
cobicistat-containing HIV regimens
should continue their treatment as
indicated. Monitor for increased
PAXLOVID or protease inhibitor
adverse events.
For further information, refer to the
respective anti-HIV drugs prescribing
information.

Refer to the respective prescribing
information for anti-infective dose
adjustment.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential loss of virologic response and
possible resistance. Alternate
antimycobacterial drugs such as rifabutin
should be considered [see
Contraindications (4)].

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Antimycobacterial
bedaquiline
↑ bedaquiline
Refer to the bedaquiline product label for
further information.
rifabutin

↑ rifabutin

Antipsychotics

lurasidone,
pimozide

↑ lurasidone
↑ pimozide

Antipsychotics

quetiapine

↑ quetiapine

clozapine

↑ clozapine

Benign prostatic
hyperplasia agents

silodosin

↑ silodosin

Calcium channel
blockers

amlodipine,
diltiazem,
felodipine,
nicardipine,
nifedipine,
verapamil

↑ calcium channel
blocker

digoxin

↑ digoxin

Cardiac glycosides

Cardiovascular
agents

eplerenone

↑ eplerenone

ivabradine

↑ ivabradine

11
Reference ID: 5178484

Refer to rifabutin product label for
further information on rifabutin dose
reduction.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
serious and/or life-threatening reactions
such as cardiac arrhythmias [see
Contraindications (4)].
If co-administration is necessary, reduce
quetiapine dose and monitor for
quetiapine-associated adverse reactions.
Refer to the quetiapine prescribing
information for recommendations.
If co-administration is necessary,
consider reducing the clozapine dose and
monitor for adverse reactions.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for postural hypotension [see
Contraindications (4)].
Caution is warranted and clinical
monitoring of patients is recommended.
A dose decrease may be needed for these
drugs when co-administered with
PAXLOVID.
If co-administered, refer to individual
product label for calcium channel
blocker for further information.
Caution should be exercised when
co-administering PAXLOVID with
digoxin, with appropriate monitoring of
serum digoxin levels.
Refer to the digoxin product label for
further information.
Co-administration with eplerenone is
contraindicated due to potential for
hyperkalemia [see Contraindications
(4)].
Co-administration with ivabradine is
contraindicated due to potential for
bradycardia or conduction disturbances
[see Contraindications (4)].

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Cardiovascular
aliskiren,
↑ aliskiren
Avoid concomitant use with
agents
ticagrelor,
↑ ticagrelor
PAXLOVID.
vorapaxar
↑ vorapaxar

Corticosteroids
primarily
metabolized by
CYP3A

Cystic fibrosis
transmembrane
conductance
regulator potentiators
Cystic fibrosis
transmembrane
conductance
regulator potentiators

clopidogrel

↓ clopidogrel active
metabolite

cilostazol

↑ cilostazol

betamethasone,
budesonide,
ciclesonide,
dexamethasone,
fluticasone,
methylprednisolone,
mometasone,
triamcinolone

↑ corticosteroid

lumacaftor/ivacaftor

↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

ivacaftor

↑ ivacaftor

elexacaftor/tezacaftor/
ivacaftor

↑ elexacaftor/tezacaftor/
ivacaftor

tezacaftor/ivacaftor

↑ tezacaftor/ivacaftor

Dipeptidyl peptidase
4 (DPP4) inhibitors

saxagliptin

↑ saxagliptin

Endothelin receptor
antagonists

bosentan

↑ bosentan
↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

Dosage adjustment of cilostazol is
recommended. Refer to the cilostazol
product label for more information.
Co-administration with corticosteroids
(all routes of administration) of which
exposures are significantly increased by
strong CYP3A inhibitors can increase
the risk for Cushing’s syndrome and
adrenal suppression. However, the risk
of Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal
suppression associated with short-term
use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is low.
Alternative corticosteroids including
beclomethasone, prednisone, and
prednisolone should be considered.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential loss of virologic response and
possible resistance [see
Contraindications (4)].
Reduce dosage when co-administered
with PAXLOVID. Refer to individual
product labels for more information.

Dosage adjustment of saxagliptin is
recommended. Refer to the saxagliptin
product label for more information.
Discontinue use of bosentan at least
36 hours prior to initiation of
PAXLOVID.
Refer to the bosentan product label for
further information.

Ergot derivatives

dihydroergotamine,
ergotamine,
methylergonovine

↑ dihydroergotamine
↑ ergotamine
↑ methylergonovine

12
Reference ID: 5178484

Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for acute ergot toxicity
characterized by vasospasm and
ischemia of the extremities and other
tissues including the central nervous
system [see Contraindications (4)].

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Hepatitis C direct
elbasvir/grazoprevir
↑ antiviral
Increased grazoprevir concentrations can
acting antivirals
result in alanine transaminase (ALT)
elevations.

Herbal products

glecaprevir/pibrentasvir

Avoid concomitant use
of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir with
PAXLOVID.

ombitasvir/paritaprevir/
ritonavir and dasabuvir

Refer to the
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and
dasabuvir label for further information.

sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/
voxilaprevir

Refer to the
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir
product label for further information.

St. John’s Wort
(hypericum perforatum)

HMG-CoA reductase lovastatin,
inhibitors
simvastatin

↓ nirmatrelvir/ritonavir

↑ lovastatin
↑ simvastatin

HMG-CoA reductase atorvastatin,
inhibitors
rosuvastatin

↑ atorvastatin
↑ rosuvastatin

Hormonal
contraceptive

↓ ethinyl estradiol

ethinyl estradiol

13
Reference ID: 5178484

Patients on ritonavir-containing HCV
regimens should continue their treatment
as indicated. Monitor for increased
PAXLOVID or HCV drug adverse
events with concomitant use.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential loss of virologic response and
possible resistance [see
Contraindications (4)].
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for myopathy including
rhabdomyolysis [see Contraindications
(4)].
If treatment with PAXLOVID is
considered medically necessary,
discontinue use of lovastatin and
simvastatin at least 12 hours prior to
initiation of PAXLOVID, during the
5 days of PAXLOVID treatment, and for
5 days after completing PAXLOVID.
Consider temporary discontinuation of
atorvastatin and rosuvastatin during
treatment with PAXLOVID. Atorvastatin
and rosuvastatin do not need to be
withheld prior to or after completing
PAXLOVID.
An additional, non-hormonal method of
contraception should be considered
during the 5 days of PAXLOVID
treatment and until one menstrual cycle
after stopping PAXLOVID.

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Immunosuppressants voclosporin
↑ voclosporin
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for acute and/or chronic
nephrotoxicity [see Contraindications
(4)].
Immunosuppressants calcineurin inhibitors:
Avoid concomitant use of calcineurin
cyclosporine,
↑ cyclosporine
inhibitors with PAXLOVID when close
tacrolimus
↑ tacrolimus
monitoring of immunosuppressant
concentrations is not feasible. If
co-administered, dose adjustment of the
immunosuppressant and close and
regular monitoring for
immunosuppressant concentrations and
adverse reactions are recommended
during and after treatment with
PAXLOVID. Obtain expert consultation
to appropriately manage the complexity
of this coadministration [see Warnings
and Precautions (5.1)].
mTOR inhibitors:
everolimus,
sirolimus

↑ everolimus
↑ sirolimus

tofacitinib

↑ tofacitinib

upadacitinib

↑ upadacitinib

Dosing recommendations for
co-administration of upadacitinib with
PAXLOVID depends on the upadacitinib
indication. Refer to the upadacitinib
product label for more information.

Long-acting
beta-adrenoceptor
agonist

salmeterol

↑ salmeterol

Avoid concomitant use with
PAXLOVID. The combination may
result in increased risk of cardiovascular
adverse events associated with
salmeterol, including QT prolongation,
palpitations, and sinus tachycardia.

Microsomal
triglyceride transfer
protein (MTTP)
inhibitor

lomitapide

↑ lomitapide

Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for hepatotoxicity and
gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see
Contraindications (4)].

Janus kinase (JAK)
inhibitors

14
Reference ID: 5178484

Avoid concomitant use of everolimus
and sirolimus and PAXLOVID.
Refer to the individual
immunosuppressant product label and
latest guidelines for further information.
Dosage adjustment of tofacitinib is
recommended. Refer to the tofacitinib
product label for more information.

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Migraine
eletriptan
↑ eletriptan
Co-administration of eletriptan within at
medications
least 72 hours of PAXLOVID is
contraindicated due to potential for
serious adverse reactions including
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
events [see Contraindications (4)].
ubrogepant

↑ ubrogepant

Migraine
medications
Mineralocorticoid
receptor antagonists

rimegepant

↑ rimegepant

finerenone

↑ finerenone

Muscarinic receptor
antagonists

darifenacin

↑ darifenacin

Narcotic analgesics

fentanyl,
hydrocodone,
oxycodone,
meperidine

↑ fentanyl
↑ hydrocodone
↑ oxycodone
↑ meperidine

methadone

↓ methadone

suvorexant

↑ suvorexant

aripiprazole,
brexpiprazole,
cariprazine,
iloperidone,
lumateperone,
pimavanserin

↑ aripiprazole
↑ brexpiprazole
↑ cariprazine
↑ iloperidone
↑ lumateperone
↑ pimavanserin

Neuropsychiatric
agents

15
Reference ID: 5178484

Co-administration of ubrogepant with
PAXLOVID is contraindicated due to
potential for serious adverse reactions
[see Contraindications (4)].
Avoid concomitant use with
PAXLOVID.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for serious adverse reactions
including hyperkalemia, hypotension,
and hyponatremia [see
Contraindications (4)].
The darifenacin daily-dose should not
exceed 7.5 mg when co-administered
with PAXLOVID. Refer to the
darifenacin product label for more
information.
Careful monitoring of therapeutic and
adverse effects (including potentially
fatal respiratory depression) is
recommended when fentanyl,
hydrocodone, oxycodone, or meperidine
is concomitantly administered with
PAXLOVID. If concomitant use with
PAXLOVID is necessary, consider a
dosage reduction of the narcotic
analgesic and monitor patients closely at
frequent intervals. Refer to the individual
product label for more information.
Monitor methadone-maintained patients
closely for evidence of withdrawal
effects and adjust the methadone dose
accordingly.
Avoid concomitant use of suvorexant
with PAXLOVID.
Dosage adjustment of aripiprazole,
brexpiprazole, cariprazine, iloperidone,
lumateperone, and pimavanserin is
recommended. Refer to individual
product label for more information.

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Opioid antagonists
naloxegol
↑ naloxegol
Co-administration contraindicated due to
the potential for opioid withdrawal
symptoms [see Contraindications (4)].
®
Pulmonary
sildenafil (Revatio )
↑ sildenafil
Co-administration of sildenafil with
hypertension agents
PAXLOVID is contraindicated for use in
(PDE5 inhibitors)
pulmonary hypertension due to the
potential for sildenafil associated adverse
events, including visual abnormalities
hypotension, prolonged erection, and
syncope [see Contraindications (4)].
Pulmonary
tadalafil (Adcirca®)
↑ tadalafil
Avoid concomitant use of tadalafil with
hypertension agents
PAXLOVID for pulmonary
(PDE5 inhibitors)
hypertension.
Pulmonary
hypertension agents
(sGC stimulators)

riociguat

↑ riociguat

Erectile dysfunction
agents (PDE5
inhibitors)

avanafil

↑ avanafil

sildenafil,
tadalafil,
vardenafil

↑ sildenafil
↑ tadalafil
↑ vardenafil

Sedative/hypnotics

triazolam,
oral midazolama

↑ triazolam
↑ midazolam

Sedative/hypnotics

buspirone,
clorazepate,
diazepam,
estazolam,
flurazepam,
zolpidem

↑ sedative/hypnotic

midazolam
(administered
parenterally)

↑ midazolam

Dosage adjustment is recommended for
riociguat when used for pulmonary
hypertension. Refer to the riociguat
product label for more information.
Do not use PAXLOVID with avanafil
because a safe and effective avanafil
dosage regimen has not been established.
Dosage adjustment is recommended for
use of sildenafil, tadalafil or vardenafil
with PAXLOVID when used for erectile
dysfunction. Refer to individual product
label for more information.
Co-administration contraindicated due to
potential for extreme sedation and
respiratory depression [see
Contraindications (4)].
A dose decrease may be needed for these
drugs when co-administered with
PAXLOVID and monitoring for adverse
events.

Co-administration of midazolam
(parenteral) should be done in a setting
which ensures close clinical monitoring
and appropriate medical management in
case of respiratory depression and/or
prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction
for midazolam should be considered,
especially if more than a single dose of
midazolam is administered.
Refer to the midazolam product label for
further information.

16
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 1:

Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions
Effect on
Drug Class
Drugs within Class
Concentration
Clinical Comments
Serotonin receptor
flibanserin
↑ flibanserin
Co-administration contraindicated due to
1A agonist/
potential for hypotension, syncope, and
serotonin receptor
CNS depression [see Contraindications
2A antagonist
(4)].
Vasopressin receptor tolvaptan
↑ tolvaptan
Co-administration contraindicated due to
antagonists
potential for dehydration, hypovolemia
and hyperkalemia [see
Contraindications (4)].
a.

8
8.1

See Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interaction Studies Conducted with Nirmatrelvir and Ritonavir (12.3).

USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
Pregnancy

Risk Summary
Available data on the use of nirmatrelvir during pregnancy are insufficient to evaluate for a drug-associated risk
of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes. Published observational studies on
ritonavir use in pregnant women have not identified an increase in the risk of major birth defects. Published
studies with ritonavir are insufficient to identify a drug associated risk of miscarriage (see Data). There are
maternal and fetal risks associated with untreated COVID-19 in pregnancy (see Clinical Considerations).
In an embryo-fetal development study with nirmatrelvir, reduced fetal body weights following oral
administration of nirmatrelvir to pregnant rabbits were observed at systemic exposures (AUC) approximately
11 times higher than clinical exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. No other adverse
developmental outcomes were observed in animal reproduction studies with nirmatrelvir at systemic exposures
(AUC) greater than or equal to 3 times higher than clinical exposure at the approved human dose of
PAXLOVID (see Data).
In embryo-fetal developmental studies with ritonavir, no evidence of adverse developmental outcomes was
observed following oral administration of ritonavir to pregnant rats and rabbits at systemic exposures (AUC)
5 (rat) or 8 (rabbits) times higher than clinical exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID (see Data).
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown.
All pregnancies have a risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the
estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to
4% and 15% to 20%, respectively.
Clinical Considerations
Disease-associated Maternal and/or Embryo-fetal Risk
COVID-19 in pregnancy is associated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes, including preeclampsia,
eclampsia, preterm birth, premature rupture of membranes, venous thromboembolic disease, and fetal death.

17
Reference ID: 5178484

Data
Human Data
Ritonavir
Based on prospective reports to the antiretroviral pregnancy registry of live births following exposure to
ritonavir-containing regimens (including over 3,500 live births exposed in the first-trimester and over 3,500 live
births exposed in the second and third trimesters), there was no difference in the rate of overall birth defects for
ritonavir compared with the background birth defect rate of 2.7% in the U.S. reference population of the
Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program (MACDP). The prevalence of birth defects in live births was
2.4% [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.9%, 2.9%] following first-trimester exposure to ritonavir-containing
regimens and 2.9% (95% CI: 2.4%, 3.5%) following second and third trimester exposure to ritonavir-containing
regimens. While placental transfer of ritonavir and fetal ritonavir concentrations are generally low, detectable
levels have been observed in cord blood samples and neonate hair.
Animal Data
Nirmatrelvir
Embryo-fetal developmental (EFD) toxicity studies were conducted in pregnant rats and rabbits administered
oral nirmatrelvir doses of up to 1,000 mg/kg/day during organogenesis [on Gestation Days (GD) 6 through 17 in
rats and GD 7 through 19 in rabbits]. No biologically significant developmental effects were observed in the rat
EFD study. At the highest dose of 1,000 mg/kg/day, the systemic nirmatrelvir exposure (AUC24) in rats was
approximately 9 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. In the rabbit
EFD study, lower fetal body weights (9% decrease) were observed at 1,000 mg/kg/day in the absence of
significant maternal toxicity findings. At 1,000 mg/kg/day, the systemic exposure (AUC24) in rabbits was
approximately 11 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. No other
significant developmental toxicities (malformations and embryo-fetal lethality) were observed up to the highest
dose tested, 1,000 mg/kg/day. No developmental effects were observed in rabbits at 300 mg/kg/day resulting in
systemic exposure (AUC24) approximately 3 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved human dose
of PAXLOVID. A pre- and postnatal developmental (PPND) study in pregnant rats administered oral
nirmatrelvir doses of up to 1,000 mg/kg/day from GD 6 through Lactation Day (LD) 20 showed no adverse
findings. Although no difference in body weight was noted at birth when comparing offspring born to
nirmatrelvir-treated versus control animals, a decrease in the body weight of offspring was observed on
Postnatal Day (PND) 17 (8% decrease) and PND 21 (up to 7% decrease) in the absence of maternal toxicity. No
significant differences in offspring body weight were observed from PND 28 to PND 56. The maternal systemic
exposure (AUC24) at 1,000 mg/kg/day was approximately 9 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved
human dose of PAXLOVID. No body weight changes in the offspring were noted at 300 mg/kg/day, where
maternal systemic exposure (AUC24) was approximately 6 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved
human dose of PAXLOVID.
Ritonavir
Ritonavir was administered orally to pregnant rats (at 0, 15, 35, and 75 mg/kg/day) and rabbits (at 0, 25, 50, and
110 mg/kg/day) during organogenesis (on GD 6 through 17 in rats and GD 6 through 19 in rabbits). No
evidence of teratogenicity due to ritonavir was observed in rats and rabbits at systemic exposures (AUC) 5 (rats)
or 8 (rabbits) times higher than exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. Increased incidences of
early resorptions, ossification delays, and developmental variations, as well as decreased fetal body weights
were observed in rats in the presence of maternal toxicity, at systemic exposures (AUC) approximately 10 times
higher than exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. In rabbits, resorptions, decreased litter size,
and decreased fetal weights were observed at maternally toxic doses, at systemic exposures greater than 8 times
higher than exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. In a PPND study in rats, administration of
18
Reference ID: 5178484

0, 15, 35, and 60 mg/kg/day ritonavir from GD 6 through PND 20 resulted in no developmental toxicity, at
ritonavir systemic exposures greater than 10 times the exposure at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID.
8.2

Lactation

Risk Summary
There are no available data on the presence of nirmatrelvir in human or animal milk, the effects on the breastfed
infant, or the effects on milk production. A transient decrease in body weight was observed in the nursing
offspring of rats administered nirmatrelvir (see Data). Limited published data reports that ritonavir is present in
human milk. There is no information on the effects of ritonavir on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug
on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with
the mother's clinical need for PAXLOVID and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from
PAXLOVID or from the underlying maternal condition. Breastfeeding individuals with COVID-19 should
follow practices according to clinical guidelines to avoid exposing the infant to COVID-19.
Data
In the PPND study, transiently lower body weight (up to 8%) was observed in the offspring of pregnant rats
administered nirmatrelvir at maternal systemic exposure (AUC24) approximately 9 times higher than clinical
exposures at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. No body weight changes in the offspring were noted at
maternal systemic exposure (AUC24) approximately 6 times higher than clinical exposures at the approved
human dose of PAXLOVID.
8.3

Females and Males of Reproductive Potential

Contraception
Use of ritonavir may reduce the efficacy of combined hormonal contraceptives. Advise patients using combined
hormonal contraceptives to use an effective alternative contraceptive method or an additional barrier method of
contraception [see Drug Interactions (7.3)].
8.4

Pediatric Use

The optimal dose of PAXLOVID has not been established in pediatric patients.
8.5

Geriatric Use

Clinical studies of PAXLOVID include subjects 65 years of age and older and their data contributes to the
overall assessment of safety and efficacy [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Of the total
number of subjects in the integrated dataset consisting of EPIC-HR and EPIC-SR who were randomized to and
received PAXLOVID (N=1,578), 165 (10%) were 65 years of age and older and 39 (2%) were 75 years of age
and older. No overall differences in safety were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, and
other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in safety between the elderly and younger
patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out.
8.6

Renal Impairment

Renal impairment increases nirmatrelvir exposure, which may increase the risk of PAXLOVID adverse
reactions. No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment (eGFR ≥60 to
<90 mL/min). Reduce the PAXLOVID dosage in patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 to
19
Reference ID: 5178484

Ritonavir
Ritonavir is chemically designated as 10-Hydroxy-2-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-1- [2-(1 methylethyl)-4thiazolyl]-3,6-dioxo-8,11-bis(phenylmethyl)-2,4,7,12- tetraazatridecan-13-oic acid, 5-thiazolylmethyl ester,
[5S-(5R*,8R*,10R*,11R*)]. Its molecular formula is C37H48N6O5S2, and its molecular weight is 720.95.
Ritonavir has the following structural formula:

Ritonavir is available as film-coated tablets. Each tablet contains 100 mg ritonavir with the following inactive
ingredients: anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate, colloidal silicon dioxide, copovidone, sodium stearyl
fumarate, and sorbitan monolaurate. The film coating may include the following ingredients: colloidal
anhydrous silica, colloidal silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hypromellose, polyethylene glycol,
polysorbate 80, talc, and titanium dioxide.
12
12.1

CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
Mechanism of Action

Nirmatrelvir is a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) antiviral drug [see
Microbiology (12.4)].
Ritonavir is an HIV-1 protease inhibitor but is not active against SARS-CoV-2 Mpro. Ritonavir inhibits the
CYP3A-mediated metabolism of nirmatrelvir, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of nirmatrelvir.
12.2

Pharmacodynamics

Cardiac Electrophysiology
At 3 times the steady state peak plasma concentration (Cmax) at the recommended dose, nirmatrelvir does not
prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent.
12.3

Pharmacokinetics

The pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir were similar in healthy subjects and in subjects with
mild-to-moderate COVID-19.
Nirmatrelvir AUC increased in a less than dose proportional manner over a single dose range from 250 mg to
750 mg (0.83 to 2.5 times the approved recommended dose) and multiple dose range from 75 mg to 500 mg
(0.25 to 1.67 times the approved recommended dose), when administered in combination with 100 mg ritonavir.
Nirmatrelvir steady state was achieved on Day 2 following administration of the approved recommended
dosage and the mean accumulation ratio was approximately 2-fold.
The pharmacokinetic properties of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir are displayed in Table 2.
21
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 2: Pharmacokinetic Properties of Nirmatrelvir and Ritonavir in Healthy Subjects
Nirmatrelvir (When Given With
Ritonavir)
Ritonavir
Absorption
Tmax (hr), median
3.00a
3.98a
Food effect
Test/reference (fed/fasted) ratios of adjusted geometric means (90% CI)
AUCinf and Cmax for nirmatrelvir were 119.67 (108.75, 131.68)
and 161.01 (139.05, 186.44), respectively.b
Distribution
% bound to human plasma
69%
98-99%
proteins
Blood-to-plasma ratio
0.60
0.14d
Vz/F (L), mean
104.7c
112.4c
Elimination
Major route of elimination
Renal eliminationd
Hepatic metabolism
Half-life (T½) (hr), mean
6.05a
6.15a
Oral clearance (CL/F)
8.99c
13.92c
(L/hr), mean
Metabolism
Metabolic pathways
Nirmatrelvir is a CYP3A substrate
Major CYP3A, Minor CYP2D6
but when dosed with ritonavir,
metabolic clearance is minimal.
Excretion
% drug-related material in
35.3%e
86.4%f
feces
% of dose excreted as total
27.5%e
33.8%f
(unchanged drug) in feces
% drug-related material in
49.6%e
11.3%f
urine
% of dose excreted as total
55.0%e
3.5%f
(unchanged drug) in urine

Abbreviations: CL/F=apparent clearance; hr=hour; L/hr=liters per hour; T½=terminal elimination half-life; Tmax=the time to reach Cmax;
Vz/F=apparent volume of distribution.
a. Represents data after a single dose of 300 mg nirmatrelvir (2 x 150 mg tablet formulation) administered together with 100 mg ritonavir tablet
in healthy subjects.
b. Following a single oral dose of nirmatrelvir 300 mg boosted ritonavir 100 mg at -12 hours, 0 hours and 12 hours, administered under fed
(high fat and high calorie meal) or fasted conditions.
c. 300 mg nirmatrelvir (oral suspension formulation) co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir (tablet formulation) twice daily for 3 days.
d. Red blood cell to plasma ratio.
e. Determined by 19F-NMR analysis following 300 mg nirmatrelvir oral suspension administered at 0 hr enhanced with 100 mg ritonavir
at -12 hours, 0 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours.
f. Determined by 14C analysis following 600 mg 14C-ritonavir oral solution (6 times the approved ritonavir dose).

The predicted Day 5 nirmatrelvir exposure parameters in adult subjects with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 who
were treated with PAXLOVID in EPIC-HR are presented in Table 3.

22
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 3: Predicted Day 5 Nirmatrelvir Exposure Parameters Following Administration of
Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg Twice Daily in Subjects with Mild-to-Moderate
COVID-19
Pharmacokinetic Parameter (units)a
Nirmatrelvirb
Cmax (µg/mL)
3.43 (2.59, 4.52)
c
AUCtau (µg*hr/mL)
30.4 (22.9, 39.8)
Cmin (µg/mL)
1.57 (1.16, 2.10)
Abbreviations:Cmax=predicted maximal concentration; Cmin=predicted minimal concentration (Ctrough).
a. Data presented as geometric mean (10th and 90th percentile).
b. Based on 1,016 subjects with their post hoc PK parameters.
c. AUCtau=predicted area under the plasma concentration-time profile from time 0 to 12 hours for twice-daily dosing.

Effect of Food
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir were observed following
administration of a high fat meal (800-1000 calories; 50% fat) to healthy subjects.
Specific Populations
There were no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir based on age (18 to
86 years), sex, or race/ethnicity.
Pediatric Patients
The pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established.
Patients with Renal Impairment
The pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir in patients with renal impairment following administration of a single oral
dose of nirmatrelvir 100 mg (0.33 times the approved recommended dose) co-administered with ritonavir
100 mg are presented in Table 4. Compared to healthy controls with no renal impairment, the Cmax and AUC of
nirmatrelvir in patients with mild renal impairment was 30% and 24% higher, in patients with moderate renal
impairment was 38% and 87% higher, and in patients with severe renal impairment was 48% and 204% higher,
respectively.
Table 4: Impact of Renal Impairment on Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir Pharmacokinetics
Normal Renal
Mild Renal
Moderate Renal
Function
Impairment
Impairment
(n=8)
(n=8)
(n=8)
Cmax (µg/mL)
1.60 (31)
2.08 (29)
2.21 (17)
AUCinf (µg*hr/mL)
14.46 (20)
17.91 (30)
27.11 (27)
Tmax (hr)
2.0 (1.0 - 4.0)
2.0 (1.0 – 3.0)
2.50 (1.0 – 6.0)
T½ (hr)
7.73 ± 1.82
6.60 ± 1.53
9.95 ± 3.42

Severe Renal
Impairment
(n=8)
2.37 (38)
44.04 (33)
3.0 (1.0 - 6.1)
13.37 ± 3.32

Abbreviations: AUCinf=area under the plasma concentration-time profile from time zero extrapolated to infinite time; Cmax=the observed maximum
concentration; CV=coefficient of variation; SD=standard deviation; T½=terminal elimination half-life; Tmax=the time to reach Cmax.
Values are presented as geometric mean (geometric % CV) except median (range) for Tmax and arithmetic mean ± SD for T½.

Patients with Hepatic Impairment
The pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir were similar in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic
impairment compared to healthy subjects following administration of a single oral dose of nirmatrelvir 100 mg
(0.33 times the approved recommended dose) co-administered with ritonavir 100 mg. The impact of severe
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) on the pharmacokinetics of nirmatrelvir or ritonavir has not been
studied.
Clinical Drug Interaction Studies
23
Reference ID: 5178484

Table 5 describes the effect of other drugs on the Cmax and AUC of nirmatrelvir.
Table 5: The Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Nirmatrelvir
Percent Ratio (in combination
with co-administered drug/alone)
of Nirmatrelvir Pharmacokinetic
Parameters (90% CI);
Dose (Schedule)
No Effect=100
Co-administered
Co-administered
Nirmatrelvir/
Drug
Drug
Ritonavir
N
Cmax
AUCa
Carbamazepineb

300 mg twice daily
(16 doses)

Itraconazole

200 mg once daily
(8 doses)

300 mg/100 mg
once daily
(2 doses)
300 mg/100 mg
twice daily
(5 doses)

10

56.82
(47.04, 68.62)

44.50
(33.77, 58.65)

11

118.57
(112.50, 124.97)

138.82
(129.25, 149.11)

Abbreviations: AUC=area under the plasma concentration-time curve; AUCinf=area under the plasma concentration-time profile from time zero
extrapolated to infinite time; AUCtau=area under the plasma concentration-time profile from time zero to time tau (τ), the dosing interval.
CI=confidence interval; Cmax=observed maximum plasma concentrations.
a. For carbamazepine, AUC=AUCinf; for itraconazole, AUC=AUCtau.
b. Carbamazepine titrated up to 300 mg twice daily on Day 8 through Day 15 (e.g., 100 mg twice daily on Day 1 through Day 3 and 200 mg
twice daily on Day 4 through Day 7).

Table 6 describes the effect of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir on the Cmax and AUC of other drugs.
Table 6: Effect of Nirmatrelvir/Ritonavir on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs
Percent Ratio of Test/Reference of
Geometric Means (90% CI);
Dose (Schedule)
No Effect=100
Co-administered
Co-administered
Nirmatrelvir/
Drug
Drug
Ritonavir
N
Cmax
AUCa
Midazolamb

2 mg
(1 dose)

Dabigatranb

75 mg
(1 dose)

300 mg/100 mg
twice daily
(9 doses)
300 mg/100 mg
twice daily
(4 doses)b

10

368.33
(318.91, 425.41)

1430.02
(1204.54, 1697.71)

24

233.06
(172.14, 315.54)

194.47
(155.29, 243.55)

Abbreviations: AUC=area under the plasma concentration-time curve; CI=confidence interval; Cmax=observed maximum plasma concentrations;
P-gp=p-glycoprotein.
a. AUC=AUCinf for both midazolam and dabigatran.
b. For midazolam, Test=nirmatrelvir/ritonavir plus midazolam, Reference=Midazolam. Midazolam is an index substrate for CYP3A. For
dabigatran, Test=nirmatrelvir/ritonavir plus dabigatran, Reference=Dabigatran. Dabigatran is an index substrate for P-gp.

In Vitro Studies
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) Enzymes:
• Nirmatrelvir is a reversible and time-dependent inhibitor of CYP3A, but not an inhibitor CYP1A2,
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or CYP2D6. Nirmatrelvir is an inducer of CYP2B6, 2C8,
2C9, and 3A4, but there is minimal risk for pharmacokinetic interactions arising from induction of these
CYP enzymes at the proposed therapeutic dose.
• Ritonavir is a substrate of CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Ritonavir is an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2C9,
CYP2C19, CYP2B6, and CYP3A.

24
Reference ID: 5178484

Transporter Systems: Nirmatrelvir is an inhibitor of P-gp and OATP1B1. Nirmatrelvir is a substrate for P-gp,
but not BCRP, MATE1, MATE2K, NTCP, OAT1, OAT2, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, PEPT1, OATP1B1,
OATP1B3, OATP2B1, or OATP4C1.
12.4

Microbiology

Mechanism of Action
Nirmatrelvir is a peptidomimetic inhibitor of the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro), also referred to as 3C-like
protease (3CLpro) or nonstructural protein 5 (nsp5) protease. Inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro renders it
incapable of processing the viral polyproteins pp1a and pp1ab, preventing viral replication. Nirmatrelvir
inhibited the activity of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 Mpro in a biochemical assay with a Ki value of 3.1 nM and
an IC50 value of 19.2 nM. Nirmatrelvir was found to bind directly to the SARS-CoV-2 Mpro active site by X-ray
crystallography.
Antiviral Activity
Cell Culture Antiviral Activity
Nirmatrelvir exhibited antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 (USA-WA1/2020 isolate) infection of
differentiated normal human bronchial epithelial (dNHBE) cells with EC50 and EC90 values of 62 nM
(31 ng/mL) and 181 nM (90 ng/mL), respectively, after 3 days of drug exposure.
The antiviral activity of nirmatrelvir against the Omicron sub-variants BA.2, BA.2.12.1, BA.4, BA.4.6, BA.5,
BF.7, BQ.1, BQ.1.11, and XBB.1.5 was assessed in Vero E6-TMPRSS2 cells in the presence of a P-gp
inhibitor. Nirmatrelvir had a median EC50 value of 83 nM (range: 39-146 nM) against the Omicron sub-variants,
reflecting EC50 value fold-changes ≤1.5 relative to the USA-WA1/2020 isolate.
In addition, the antiviral activity of nirmatrelvir against the SARS-CoV-2 Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Lambda,
Mu, and Omicron BA.1 variants was assessed in Vero E6 P-gp knockout cells. Nirmatrelvir had a median EC50
value of 25 nM (range: 16-141 nM). The Beta variant was the least susceptible variant tested, with an EC50
value fold-change of 3.7 relative to USA-WA1/2020. The other variants had EC50 value fold-changes ≤1.1
relative to USA-WA1/2020.
Clinical Antiviral Activity
In clinical trial EPIC-HR, which enrolled subjects who were primarily infected with the SARS-CoV-2 Delta
variant, PAXLOVID treatment was associated with a 0.83 log10 copies/mL greater median decline in viral RNA
shedding levels in nasopharyngeal samples through Day 5 (mITT1 analysis set, all treated subjects with onset of
symptoms ≤5 days who at baseline did not receive nor were expected to receive COVID-19 therapeutic mAb
treatment); similar results were observed in the mITT2 analysis set (all treated subjects with onset of symptoms
≤5 days). In the EPIC-SR trial, which included subjects who were infected with SARS-CoV-2 Delta (79%) or
Omicron (19%) variants, PAXLOVID treatment was associated with a 1.05 log10 copies/mL greater median
decline in viral RNA shedding levels in nasopharyngeal samples through Day 5, with similar declines observed
in subjects infected with Delta or Omicron variants. The degree of reduction in viral RNA levels relative to
placebo following 5 days of PAXLOVID treatment was similar between unvaccinated high-risk subjects in
EPIC-HR and vaccinated high-risk subjects in EPIC-SR.
Antiviral Resistance
In Cell Culture and Biochemical Assays
SARS-CoV-2 Mpro residues potentially associated with nirmatrelvir resistance have been identified using a
variety of methods, including SARS-CoV-2 resistance selection, testing of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 viruses
25
Reference ID: 5178484

with Mpro substitutions, and biochemical assays with recombinant SARS-CoV-2 Mpro containing amino acid
substitutions. Table 7 indicates Mpro substitutions and combinations of Mpro substitutions that have been
observed in nirmatrelvir-selected SARS-CoV-2 in cell culture. Individual Mpro substitutions are listed regardless
of whether they occurred alone or in combination with other Mpro substitutions. Note that the Mpro S301P and
T304I substitutions overlap the P6 and P3 positions of the nsp5/nsp6 cleavage site located at the C-terminus of
Mpro. Substitutions at other Mpro cleavage sites have not been associated with nirmatrelvir resistance in cell
culture. The clinical significance of these substitutions is unknown.
Table 7:

SARS-CoV-2 Mpro Amino Acid Substitutions Selected by Nirmatrelvir in Cell Culture

Single Substitutions
(EC50 value fold change)
≥2 Substitutions
(EC50 value fold change)

Abbreviation: ND=no data.

T21I (1.1-4.6), L50F (1.5-4.2), P108S (ND), T135I (ND), F140L (4.1), S144A
(2.2-5.3), C160F (ND), E166A (3.3), E166V (25-288), L167F (ND), T169I (ND),
H172Y (ND), A173V (0.9-1.7), V186A (ND), R188G (ND), A191V (ND), A193P
(ND), P252L (5.9), S301P (ND), and T304I (1.4-5.5).
T21I+S144A (9.4), T21I+E166V (83), T21I+A173V (3.1), T21I+T304I (3.0-7.9),
L50F+E166V (34-175), L50F+T304I (5.9), T135I+T304I (3.8), F140L+A173V
(10.1), H172Y+P252L (ND), A173V+T304I (20.2), T21I+L50F+A193P+S301P
(28.8), T21I+S144A+T304I (27.8), T21I+C160F+A173V+V186A+T304I (28.5),
T21I+A173V+T304I (15), and L50F+F140L+L167F+T304I (54.7).

In a biochemical assay using recombinant SARS-CoV-2 Mpro containing amino acid substitutions, the following
SARS-CoV-2 Mpro substitutions led to ≥3-fold reduced nirmatrelvir activity (fold-change based on Ki values):
Y54A (25), F140A (21), F140L (7.6), F140S (260), G143S (3.6), S144A (46), S144E (480), S144T (170),
H164N (6.7), E166A (35), E166G (6.2), E166V (7,700), H172Y (250), A173S (4.1), A173V (16), R188G (38),
Q192L (29), Q192P (7.8), and V297A (3.0). In addition, the following combinations of Mpro substitutions led to
≥3-fold reduced nirmatrelvir activity: T21I+S144A (20), T21I+E166V (11,000), T21I+A173V (15),
L50F+E166V (4,500), T135I+T304I (5.1), F140L+A173V (95), H172Y+P252L (180), A173V+T304I (28),
T21I+S144A+T304I (51), T21I+A173V+T304I (55), L50F+E166A+L167F (210), T21I+L50F+A193P+S301P
(7.3), L50F+F140L+L167F+T304I (190), and T21I+C160F+A173V+V186A+T304I (28). The following
substitutions and substitution combinations emerged in cell culture but conferred <3-fold reduced nirmatrelvir
activity in biochemical assays: T21I (1.6), L50F (0.2), P108S (2.9), T135I (2.2), C160F (0.6), L167F (0.9),
T169I (1.4), V186A (0.8), A191V (0.8), A193P (0.9), P252L (0.9), S301P (0.2), T304I (1.0), T21I+T304I (1.8),
and L50F+T304I (1.3). The clinical significance of these substitutions is unknown.
In Clinical Trials
Treatment-emergent substitutions were evaluated among subjects in clinical trials EPIC-HR/SR with sequence
data available at both baseline and a post-baseline visit (n=907 PAXLOVID-treated subjects,
n=946 placebo-treated subjects). SARS-CoV-2 Mpro amino acid changes were classified as PAXLOVID
treatment-emergent substitutions if they occurred at the same amino acid position in 3 or more
PAXLOVID-treated subjects and were ≥2.5-fold more common in PAXLOVID-treated subjects than
placebo-treated subjects. The following PAXLOVID treatment-emergent Mpro substitutions were observed:
T98I/R/del(n=4), E166V (n=3), and W207L/R/del (n=4). Within the Mpro cleavage sites, the following
PAXLOVID treatment-emergent substitutions were observed: A5328S/V(n=7) and S6799A/P/Y (n=4). These
cleavage site substitutions were not associated with the co-occurrence of any specific Mpro substitutions.
None of the treatment-emergent substitutions listed above in Mpro or Mpro cleavage sites occurred in
PAXLOVID-treated subjects who experienced hospitalization. Thus, the clinical significance of these
substitutions is unknown.

26
Reference ID: 5178484

Viral RNA Rebound (With and Without COVID-19 Symptoms) and Treatment-Emergent Substitutions
EPIC-HR and EPIC-SR were not designed to evaluate COVID-19 rebound; exploratory analyses were
conducted to assess the relationship between PAXLOVID use and rebound in viral RNA shedding levels or
self-reported COVID-19 symptoms.
Post-treatment increases in SARS-CoV-2 RNA shedding levels in nasopharyngeal samples were observed on
Day 10 and/or Day 14 in a subset of PAXLOVID and placebo recipients in EPIC-HR and EPIC-SR, irrespective
of COVID-19 symptoms. The frequency of detection of post-treatment viral RNA rebound varied according to
analysis parameters, but was generally similar among PAXLOVID and placebo recipients. A similar or smaller
percentage of placebo recipients compared to PAXLOVID recipients had nasopharyngeal viral RNA results
< lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) at all study timepoints in both the treatment and post-treatment periods.
In EPIC-HR, of 59 PAXLOVID-treated subjects identified with post-treatment viral RNA rebound and with
available viral sequence data, treatment-emergent substitutions in Mpro potentially reducing nirmatrelvir activity
were detected in 2 (3%) subjects, including E166V in 1 subject and T304I in 1 subject. Both subjects had viral
RNA shedding levels <LLOQ by Day 14.
Post-treatment viral RNA rebound was not associated with the primary clinical outcome of COVID-19 related
hospitalization or death from any cause through Day 28 following the single 5-day course of PAXLOVID
treatment. The clinical relevance of post-treatment increases in viral RNA following PAXLOVID or placebo
treatment is unknown.
The frequency of symptom rebound through Day 28, irrespective of viral RNA results, was similar among
PAXLOVID and placebo recipients. The frequency of combined viral RNA rebound plus symptom rebound
could not be fully assessed as most episodes of symptom rebound occurred after Day 14 (the last day
SARS-CoV-2 RNA levels were routinely assessed).
Cross-Resistance
Cross-resistance is not expected between nirmatrelvir and remdesivir or any other anti-SARS-CoV-2 agents
with different mechanisms of action (i.e., agents that are not Mpro inhibitors).
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
13.1

Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility

Nirmatrelvir
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with nirmatrelvir.
Nirmatrelvir was negative for mutagenic or clastogenic activity in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays
including the Ames bacterial reverse mutation assay using S. typhimurium and E. coli, the in vitro micronucleus
assay using human lymphoblastoid TK6 cells, and the in vivo rat micronucleus assays.
In a fertility and early embryonic development study, nirmatrelvir was administered orally to male and female
rats at doses of 60, 200, or 1,000 mg/kg/day once daily beginning 14 days prior to mating, throughout the
mating phase, and continued through GD 6 for females and for a total of 32 doses for males. There were no
effects on fertility, reproductive performance, or early embryonic development at doses up to 1,000 mg/kg/day,
resulting in systemic exposure (AUC24) approximately 5 times higher than exposure at the approved human
dose of PAXLOVID.
27
Reference ID: 5178484

Ritonavir
Carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been conducted on ritonavir. In male mice, at levels of 50, 100, or
200 mg/kg/day, there was a dose dependent increase in the incidence of both adenomas and combined
adenomas and carcinomas in the liver. Based on AUC measurements, the exposure at the high dose was
approximately 25 times higher than the exposure in humans at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID. No
carcinogenic effects were observed in females at up to the highest dose tested, resulting in systemic exposure
(AUC24) approximately 25 times higher than the exposure in humans at the approved human dose of
PAXLOVID. In rats dosed at levels of 7, 15, or 30 mg/kg/day, there were no carcinogenic effects. In this study,
the exposure at the high dose was approximately 5 times higher than the exposure in humans at the approved
human dose of PAXLOVID.
Ritonavir was found to be negative for mutagenic or clastogenic activity in a battery of in vitro and
in vivo assays including the Ames bacterial reverse mutation assay using S. typhimurium and E. coli, the mouse
lymphoma assay, the mouse micronucleus test and chromosomal aberration assays in human lymphocytes.
Ritonavir produced no effects on fertility in rats at drug exposures approximately 18 (male) and 27 (female)
times higher than the exposure in humans at the approved human dose of PAXLOVID.
14 CLINICAL STUDIES
14.1

Efficacy in Subjects at High Risk of Progression to Severe COVID-19 (EPIC-HR)

EPIC-HR (NCT04960202) was a Phase 2/3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in
non-hospitalized symptomatic adult subjects with a laboratory confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Eligible subjects were 18 years of age and older with at least 1 of the following risk factors for progression to
severe disease: diabetes, overweight (BMI >25), chronic lung disease (including asthma), chronic kidney
disease, current smoker, immunosuppressive disease or immunosuppressive treatment, cardiovascular disease,
hypertension, sickle cell disease, neurodevelopmental disorders, active cancer, medically-related technological
dependence, or were 60 years of age and older regardless of comorbidities. Subjects with COVID-19 symptom
onset of ≤5 days were included in the study. Subjects were randomized (1:1) to receive PAXLOVID
(nirmatrelvir/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg) or placebo orally every 12 hours for 5 days. The trial excluded
individuals with a history of prior COVID-19 infection or vaccination and excluded individuals taking any
medications with clinically significant drug interactions with PAXLOVID. The primary efficacy endpoint was
the proportion of subjects with COVID-19 related hospitalization or death from any cause through Day 28. The
analysis was conducted in the modified intent-to-treat (mITT) analysis set [all treated subjects with onset of
symptoms ≤3 days who at baseline did not receive nor were expected to receive COVID-19 therapeutic
monoclonal antibody (mAb) treatment], the mITT1 analysis set (all treated subjects with onset of symptoms
≤5 days who at baseline did not receive nor were expected to receive COVID-19 therapeutic mAb treatment),
and the mITT2 analysis set (all treated subjects with onset of symptoms ≤5 days).
A total of 2,113 subjects were randomized to receive either PAXLOVID or placebo. At baseline, mean age was
45 years; 51% were male; 71% were White, 15% were Asian, 9% were American Indian or Alaska Native, 4%
were Black or African American, and 1% was missing or unknown; 41% were Hispanic or Latino; 67% of
subjects had onset of symptoms ≤3 days before initiation of study treatment; 49% of subjects were serological
negative at baseline; the mean (SD) baseline viral RNA in nasopharyngeal samples was 4.71 log10 copies/mL
(2.89); 27% of subjects had a baseline viral RNA of ≥10^7 (log10 copies/mL); 6% of subjects either received or
were expected to receive COVID-19 therapeutic monoclonal antibody treatment at the time of randomization
and were excluded from the mITT and mITT1 analyses.
28
Reference ID: 5178484

The baseline demographic and disease characteristics were balanced between the PAXLOVID and placebo
groups.
The proportions of subjects who discontinued treatment due to an adverse event were 2.0% in the PAXLOVID
group and 4.2% in the placebo group.
Table 8 provides results of the primary endpoint in mITT1 analysis population. For the primary endpoint, the
relative risk reduction in the mITT1 analysis population for PAXLOVID compared to placebo was 86% (95%
CI: 72%, 93%).
Table 8: COVID-19 Related Hospitalization or Death from Any Cause Through Day 28 in
Non-Hospitalized Adults with COVID-19 (mITT1 Analysis Set): EPIC-HR
PAXLOVID
Placebo
(N=977)
(N=989)
COVID-19 Related Hospitalization or Death from Any Cause Through Day 28
n (%)
9 (0.9%)
Reduction Relative to Placeboa (95% CI), %
COVID-19 Related Hospitalization Through
Day 28, %
All-cause Mortality Through Day 28b, %

64 (6.5%)

-5.6 (-7.3, -4.0)
9 (0.9%)

63 (6.4%)

0

12 (1.2%)

Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; COVID-19=coronavirus disease 2019; mAb=monoclonal antibody; mITT1=modified intent-to-treat 1 (all
treated subjects with onset of symptoms ≤5 days who at baseline did not receive nor were expected to receive COVID-19 therapeutic mAb
treatment).
The determination of primary efficacy was based on a planned interim analysis of 754 subjects in mITT population. The estimated risk reduction
was -6.5% with a 95% CI of (-9.3%, -3.7%) and 2-sided p-value <0.0001.
a. The estimated cumulative proportion of subjects hospitalized or death by Day 28 was calculated for each treatment group using the
Kaplan-Meier method, where subjects without hospitalization and death status through Day 28 were censored at the time of study
discontinuation.
b. For the secondary endpoint of all-cause mortality through Week 24, there were 0 and 15 (1%) events in the PAXLOVID arm and placebo
arm, respectively.

Consistent results were observed in the mITT and mITT2 analysis populations.
Similar trends have been observed across subgroups of subjects (see Figure 1).

29
Reference ID: 5178484

Figure 1: Subgroup Analysis of Adults with COVID-19 Dosed within 5 Days of Symptom Onset with
COVID-19 Related Hospitalization or Death from Any Cause Through Day 28: EPIC-HR

Abbreviations: BMI=body mass index; COVID-19=coronavirus disease 2019; mAb=monoclonal antibody; mITT=modified intent-to-treat;
SARS-CoV-2=severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2.
N=number of subjects in the category of the analysis set.
All categories are based on mITT1 population except for COVID-19 mAb treatment which is based on mITT2 population.
Seropositivity was defined if results were positive in either Elecsys anti-SARS-CoV-2 S or Elecsys anti-SARS-CoV-2 (N) assay.
The difference of the proportions in the 2 treatment groups and its 95% confidence interval based on normal approximation of the data are
presented.

Among subjects who were SARS-CoV-2 seropositive at baseline, 1/490 (0.2%) PAXLOVID recipients versus
8/479 (1.7%) placebo recipients met the primary endpoint of COVID-19 related hospitalization or death from
any cause through Day 28 [reduction relative to placebo -1.47% (-2.70%, -0.25%)].
14.2

Trial in Unvaccinated Subjects Without a Risk Factor for Progression to Severe COVID-19 or
Subjects Fully Vaccinated Against COVID-19 With at Least One Factor for Progression to Severe
COVID-19 (EPIC-SR)

PAXLOVID is not indicated for the treatment of COVID-19 in patients without a risk factor for progression to
severe COVID-19.
EPIC-SR (NCT05011513) was a Phase 2/3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in
non-hospitalized symptomatic adult subjects with a laboratory confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Eligible subjects were 18 years of age or older with COVID-19 symptom onset of ≤5 days who were at standard
risk for progression to severe disease. The trial included previously unvaccinated subjects with no risk factors
for progression to severe disease or subjects fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (i.e., completed a primary
vaccination series) with at least 1 of the risk factors for progression to severe disease as defined in EPIC-HR.
Through the December 19, 2021, data cutoff, a total of 1,075 subjects were randomized (1:1) to receive
PAXLOVID or placebo orally every 12 hours for 5 days; of these, 59% were fully vaccinated high-risk
subjects.
30
Reference ID: 5178484

The primary endpoint in this trial, the difference in time to sustained alleviation of all targeted COVID-19 signs
and symptoms through Day 28 among PAXLOVID versus placebo recipients, was not met.
In an exploratory analysis of the subgroup of fully vaccinated subjects with at least 1 risk factor for progression
to severe disease, a non-statistically significant numerical reduction relative to placebo for the secondary
endpoint of COVID-19 related hospitalization or death from any cause through Day 28 was observed.
14.3

Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Trial

PAXLOVID is not indicated for the post-exposure prophylaxis of COVID-19.
In a double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled trial, the efficacy of PAXLOVID when administered for
5 or 10 days as post-exposure prophylaxis of COVID-19 was evaluated. Eligible subjects were asymptomatic
adults 18 years of age and older who were SARS-CoV-2 negative at baseline and who lived in the same
household with symptomatic individuals with a recent diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. A total of 2,736 subjects
were randomized (1:1:1) to receive PAXLOVID orally every 12 hours for 5 days, PAXLOVID orally every
12 hours for 10 days, or placebo.
The primary endpoint for this trial was not met. The primary endpoint was the risk reduction between the 5-day
and 10-day PAXLOVID regimens versus placebo in the proportion of subjects who developed RT-PCR or
RAT-confirmed symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection through Day 14 who had a negative SARS-CoV-2
RT-PCR result at baseline. The proportion of subjects who had events through Day 14 was 2.6% for the 5-day
PAXLOVID regimen, 2.4% for the 10-day PAXLOVID regimen, and 3.9% for placebo. There was not a
statistically significant risk reduction versus placebo for either the 5-day or 10-day PAXLOVID regimen.
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
How Supplied
PAXLOVID is nirmatrelvir tablets co-packaged with ritonavir tablets. It is supplied in two different Dose
Packs.
Nirmatrelvir tablets and ritonavir tablets are supplied in separate blister cavities within the same child-resistant
blister card.
Dose Pack

300 mg
nirmatrelvir;
100 mg
ritonavir

Content

Each Carton Contains:

NDC

0069-5001-30

30 tablets divided in
10 blister cards

Description

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with the “a” logo and the
code NK.
Or

0069-5045-30

31
Reference ID: 5178484

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.

Dose Pack

Content

NDC

0069-5321-30

Each Blister Card Contains:

0069-5001-06

2 nirmatrelvir tablets
(150 mg each) and
1 ritonavir tablet
(100 mg)

Description

Ritonavir tablets: White to off-white,
capsule-shaped, film-coated tablets debossed
with “H” on one side and “R9” on the other
side.
Or
Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with “NK” on one side.
Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with the “a” logo and the
code NK.
Or

0069-5045-06

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White to off-white,
capsule-shaped, film-coated tablets debossed
with “H” on one side and “R9” on the other
side.
Or

0069-5321-03

150 mg
nirmatrelvir;
100 mg
ritonavir

Each Carton Contains:

0069-5017-20

20 tablets divided in
10 blister cards

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with “NK” on one side.
Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with the “a” logo and the
code NK.
Or

32
Reference ID: 5178484

Dose Pack

Content

Each Blister Card Contains:

NDC

0069-5317-20

0069-5017-04

1 nirmatrelvir tablet
(150 mg) and
1 ritonavir tablet
(100 mg)

Description

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with “NK” on one side.
Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with the “a” logo and the
code NK.
Or

0069-5317-02

Nirmatrelvir tablets: Oval, pink
immediate-release, film-coated tablets
debossed with "PFE" on one side and "3CL"
on the other side.
Ritonavir tablets: White film-coated ovaloid
tablets debossed with “NK” on one side.

Storage and Handling
Store at USP controlled room temperature 20○C to 25○C (68○F to 77○F); excursions permitted between 15○C to
30○C (59○F to 86○F).
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
Advise the patient to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Patient Information).
Drug Interactions
Inform patients that PAXLOVID may interact with certain drugs and is contraindicated for use with certain
drugs; therefore, advise patients to report to their healthcare provider the use of any prescription,
non-prescription medication, or herbal products [see Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4), Warnings and
Precautions (5.1), and Drug Interactions (7)].
Hypersensitivity Reactions
Inform patients that anaphylaxis, serious skin reactions, and other hypersensitivity reactions have been reported,
even following a single dose of PAXLOVID. Advise them to immediately discontinue the drug and to inform
their healthcare provider at the first sign of a skin rash, hives or other skin reactions, difficulty in swallowing or
breathing, any swelling suggesting angioedema (for example, swelling of the lips, tongue, face, tightness of the
throat, hoarseness), or other symptoms of an allergic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)].

33
Reference ID: 5178484

Dosage Modification in Patients with Moderate Renal Impairment
To ensure appropriate dosing in patients with moderate renal impairment, instruct such patients that they will be
taking one 150 mg nirmatrelvir tablet with one 100 mg ritonavir tablet together twice daily for 5 days
[see Dosage and Administration (2.3)].
Administration Instructions
Inform patients to take PAXLOVID with or without food as instructed. Advise patients to swallow all tablets
for PAXLOVID whole and not to chew, break, or crush the tablets. Alert the patient of the importance of
completing the full 5-day treatment course and to continuing isolation in accordance with public health
recommendations to maximize viral clearance and minimize transmission of SARS-CoV-2. If the patient misses
a dose of PAXLOVID within 8 hours of the time it is usually taken, the patient should take it as soon as
possible and resume the normal dosing schedule. If the patient misses a dose by more than 8 hours, the patient
should not take the missed dose and instead take the next dose at the regularly scheduled time. The patient
should not double the dose to make up for a missed dose [see Dosage and Administration (2)].
This product’s labeling may have been updated. For the most recent prescribing information, please visit
www.pfizer.com. For Medical Information about PAXLOVID, please visit www.pfizermedinfo.com or call
1-800-438-1985.

LAB-1523-0.12a

34
Reference ID: 5178484

PATIENT INFORMATION
PAXLOVID (pax-LO-vid)
(nirmatrelvir tablets; ritonavir tablets)
co-packaged for oral use
What is the most important information I should know about PAXLOVID?
PAXLOVID can interact with other medicines causing severe or life-threatening side effects or death. It is important to
know the medicines that should not be taken with PAXLOVID.
Do not take PAXLOVID if:
• you are taking any of the following medicines:
o alfuzosin
o ivabradine
o quinidine
o amiodarone
o lomitapide
o ranolazine
o apalutamide
o lovastatin
o rifampin
o rifapentine
o carbamazepine
o lumacaftor/ivacaftor
o St. John’s Wort (hypericum perforatum)
o colchicine
o lurasidone
o sildenafil (Revatio®) for pulmonary
o dihydroergotamine
o methylergonovine
arterial hypertension
o dronedarone
o midazolam (oral)
o silodosin
o eletriptan
o naloxegol
o simvastatin
o eplerenone
o phenobarbital
o tolvaptan
o ergotamine
o phenytoin
o triazolam
o finerenone
o pimozide
o ubrogepant
o flecainide
o primidone
o voclosporin
o flibanserin
o propafenone
These are not the only medicines that may cause serious or life-threatening side effects if taken with PAXLOVID.
PAXLOVID may increase or decrease the levels of multiple other medicines. It is very important to tell your healthcare
provider about all of the medicines you are taking because additional laboratory tests or changes in the dose of your
other medicines may be necessary during treatment with PAXLOVID. Your healthcare provider may also tell you about
specific symptoms to watch out for that may indicate that you need to stop or decrease the dose of some of your other
medicines.
• you are allergic to nirmatrelvir, ritonavir, or any of the ingredients in PAXLOVID. See the end of this leaflet for a
complete list of ingredients in PAXLOVID. See “What are the possible side effects of PAXLOVID?” for signs
and symptoms of allergic reactions.
What is PAXLOVID?
PAXLOVID is a prescription medicine used to treat mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults
who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death.
PAXLOVID is not approved for use as pre-exposure or post-exposure treatment for prevention of COVID-19.
Before taking PAXLOVID, tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions, including if you:
• have kidney problems. You may need a different dose of PAXLOVID.
• have liver problems, including hepatitis.
• have Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 (HIV-1) infection. PAXLOVID may lead to some HIV-1 medicines not
working as well in the future.
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known if PAXLOVID can harm your unborn baby. Tell your
healthcare provider right away if you are or if you become pregnant.
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known if PAXLOVID can pass into your breast milk. Talk to your
healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with PAXLOVID.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter
medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements.
• Your healthcare provider can tell you if it is safe to take PAXLOVID with other medicines.
• You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with PAXLOVID.
• Do not start taking a new medicine without telling your healthcare provider.
Tell your healthcare provider if you are taking combined birth control (hormonal contraceptive). PAXLOVID
may affect how your hormonal contraceptives work. Females who are able to become pregnant should use another
effective alternative form of contraception or an additional barrier method of contraception during treatment with
PAXLOVID. Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions about contraceptive methods that might be right
for you.
1
Reference ID: 5178484

How should I take PAXLOVID?
• Take PAXLOVID exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it.
• PAXLOVID consists of 2 medicines: nirmatrelvir tablets and ritonavir tablets. The 2 medicines are taken
together 2 times each day for 5 days.
o Nirmatrelvir is an oval, pink tablet.
o Ritonavir is a white or off-white tablet.
• PAXLOVID is available in 2 Dose Packs (see Figures A and B below). Your healthcare provider will prescribe the
PAXLOVID Dose Pack that is right for you.
• If you have kidney disease, your healthcare provider may prescribe a lower dose (see Figure B). Talk to
your healthcare provider to make sure you receive the correct Dose Pack.

2
Reference ID: 5178484

Do not remove your PAXLOVID tablets from the blister card before you are ready to take your dose.
o Take your first dose of PAXLOVID in the morning or at bedtime, depending on when you pick up your
prescription, or as your healthcare provider tells you to.
o Take all tablets from your blister card at the same time as one dose.
• Swallow the tablets whole. Do not chew, break, or crush the tablets.
• Take PAXLOVID with or without food.
• Do not stop taking PAXLOVID without talking to your healthcare provider, even if you feel better.
• If you miss a dose of PAXLOVID within 8 hours of the time it is usually taken, take it as soon as you remember. If
you miss a dose by more than 8 hours, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at your regular time. Do not
take 2 doses of PAXLOVID at the same time.
• If you take too much PAXLOVID, call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right
away.
• If you are taking a ritonavir- or cobicistat-containing medicine to treat hepatitis C or HIV-1 infection, you should
continue to take your medicine as prescribed by your healthcare provider.
Talk to your healthcare provider if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 5 days.
•

What are the possible side effects of PAXLOVID?
PAXLOVID may cause serious side effects, including:
• Allergic reactions, including severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) have happened during treatment with
PAXLOVID. Stop taking PAXLOVID and get medical help right away if you get any of the following symptoms of an
allergic reaction:
o skin rash, hives, blisters or peeling skin
o trouble swallowing or breathing
o painful sores or ulcers in the mouth, nose, throat
o throat tightness
or genital area
o hoarseness
o swelling of the mouth, lips, tongue or face
• Liver problems. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following signs and symptoms of
liver problems during treatment with PAXLOVID:
o loss of appetite
o pale colored stools
o yellowing of your skin and the white of eyes
o itchy skin
o dark-colored urine
o stomach-area (abdominal) pain
The most common side effects of PAXLOVID include: altered sense of taste and diarrhea.
Other possible side effects include:
•
•
•
•
•
•

headache
vomiting
abdominal pain
nausea
high blood pressure
feeling generally unwell

These are not all of the possible side effects of PAXLOVID. For more information, ask your healthcare provider or
pharmacist.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
How should I store PAXLOVID?
• Store PAXLOVID at room temperature between 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C).
Keep PAXLOVID and all medicines out of the reach of children.
General information about the safe and effective use of PAXLOVID.
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet. Do not use
PAXLOVID for a condition for which it was not prescribed. Do not give PAXLOVID to other people, even if they have
the same symptoms that you have. It may harm them. You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more
information about PAXLOVID that is written for health professionals.

5
Reference ID: 5178484

What are the ingredients in PAXLOVID?
Active ingredient: nirmatrelvir and ritonavir
Nirmatrelvir inactive ingredients: colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate,
microcrystalline cellulose, and sodium stearyl fumarate. Film-coating contains: hydroxy propyl methylcellulose, iron
oxide red, polyethylene glycol, and titanium dioxide.
Ritonavir inactive ingredients: anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate, colloidal silicon dioxide, copovidone, sodium
stearyl fumarate, and sorbitan monolaurate. The film coating may contain: colloidal anhydrous silica, colloidal silicon
dioxide, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hypromellose, polyethylene glycol, polysorbate 80, talc, and titanium dioxide.

LAB-1524-0.9a
For more information, go to www.pfizer.com or call 1-800-438-1985.
This Patient Informa ion has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

6
Reference ID: 5178484

Issued: 05/2023

Signature Page 1 of 1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------/s/
-----------------------------------------------------------JOHN J FARLEY
05/25/2023 05:10:49 AM

Reference ID: 5178484

